[Music]
so if you've ever tried to lose weight
you know about that scale addiction how
discouraging it was when the numbers
didn't move or even worse when they grew
yeah but it might not be you it might be
the scale or the way you weigh yourself
well you're eating way that's way too
much right so here are 18 mistakes you
might be making while weighing yourself
number 1 not taking the weather into
account nope I don't mean that you can
weigh more or less in particular weather
but your scale on the other hand might
react to different weather conditions
digital scales tend to show bigger
numbers like up to three and a half
pounds more not only when it's cold but
also when the humidity is high so keep
that in mind during the next cold spike
to weighing yourself on Mondays let's be
honest I can't count the number of times
I've given in to comfort and junk food
temptations over the weekend as a result
weighting myself on Monday only added to
my new working week blues the way out
instead of hopping on the scale on
Monday try Friday morning
that's when your weight will reflect all
the healthy lifestyle efforts you made
throughout the week 3 weighing yourself
after a shower for millions of people
their morning routine includes taking a
shower and then checking their way but
weighing yourself after a shower is a
surefire way to start the day with
disappointment the largest organ in your
body is your skin and it also happens to
absorb liquids really well this means
that after swimming or taking a shower
your body has absorbed 1 to 3 cups of
water adhere the weight of your hair
which is way heavier when it's wet and
you'll never check your weight after a
shower again
for weighing yourself at night if your
favorite time to step on the scale is
late in the evening don't get upset with
your results look by the evening you've
already eaten at least three meals and
drank a ton of water so keep in mind
that your weight can fluctuate by a few
pounds during the day and weigh yourself
in the morning that's when you'll get
the most accurate results 5 weighing
yourself after a workout now
theoretically it makes sense after all
you've just burned tons of calories
surely you must have lost some weight
and not really the number on the scale
might be smaller than usual but that's
because you've been sweating and for
every 16 ounces of sweat you lose about
1 pound of your body weight but it's not
calories or fat burn it's just excess
water that was shed and will return once
you start drinking again a much more
effective and accurate way is to check
your weight the morning after your
workout 6 eating a lot of sodium before
weighing yourself if you eat a lot of
foods rich in sodium your body starts to
retain more fluid than usual as a result
you're more likely to see bigger numbers
on the scale in the morning if you
snacked on salty foods the night before
fast food or processed meats like coal
cuts sausage and bacon Oh bacon what
about you what's your favorite salty
snack the munch on at night let me know
down in the comments number 7
weighing yourself every day your weight
can change from day to day by as much as
5 pounds and that's perfectly normal
it depends on how much liquid you've
retained or what foods you've been
eating
if you've temporarily but very
enthusiastically cut down on carbs your
weight will drop but not permanently as
soon as you start eating carbs again
the lost pounds will return that's why
stepping on the scale every day can
result in an unhealthy dependence on
this device which can lead to
never-ending anxiety it makes your body
develop a stress hormone called cortisol
which leads to fat and sugar cravings
besides by checking your weight every
day you don't get the whole picture of
what's going on with your body number
eight not weighing yourself often enough
now on the other hand checking your
weight only once a month isn't a good
idea either this way you won't be able
to figure out your weekly average and
understand which factors influence your
weight fluctuations 9 using different
scales you might have several scales at
home or maybe you use your personal
scale in the bathroom and a scale in the
gym whatever the case different scales
are bound to give you conflicting
results and the difference can be up to
10 pounds 10 putting the scale in the
wrong place your scale can show you the
wrong numbers simply because it stands
on the wrong surface carpets bathroom
tiles and wooden floors can cause the
scale to get uncalibrated so put your
scale on a flat hard surface to get the
right numbers 11 using a digital scale
admittedly digital scales are as common
nowadays as they are convenient the
truth is that it's all too easy to cause
your digital scale to become
uncalibrated that's why you have to
calibrate a digital scale every morning
otherwise you can't trust it 12 being
too emotionally invested if what you see
on the scale upset you a bit too much
for your liking it's time to revise your
approach remind yourself that these
readings are temporary and you shouldn't
judge your entire weight loss progress
based solely on these numbers in the
long run it's not about the weight
itself but about the healthy habits you
bring into your life
concentrate on these positive changes
and your weight will eventually take
care of itself
13 weighing yourself at different times
it makes sense that if you weigh
yourself in the afternoon on Tuesday in
the evening on Thursday and in the
morning on Saturday you'll see very
different and undoubtedly confusing
results to avoid inexplicable and
upsetting weight fluctuations make it a
rule to always check how many pounds
you've lost at the same time in the
morning 14 weighing yourself with your
clothes on it's one of the biggest
mistakes you can make while checking
your way the thing is that few people
who weigh themselves at home know how to
adjust for their clothing as a result
they tend to assume that their clothing
weighs way more than it actually does so
hop on the scale with minimum clothes on
or make a weight adjustment of - 1.75
pounds if you're a woman and two and a
half pounds if you're a man or just do
it naked and skip all the math 15 not
listening to your body being dependent
on the numbers on the scale will take
you nowhere instead try to get more in
tune with your body even if your scale
shows you've gained a couple of pounds
but you feel lighter and your clothes
have become looser ignore the scale
readings 16 not taking body composition
into account you can't even imagine how
many people overlook such a crucial
health and fitness parameter as body
composition you need to monitor and keep
control of your body mass index
but don't forget about body fat
percentage as well for example a really
muscular person can be considered
overweight according to a weight and
height chart but if we take into account
their body composition analysis with a
more than healthy body fat percentage
this person would have a perfectly
appropriate weight
on the other hand someone who seems slim
can be carrying an excessive amount of
body fat 17 using the scale that doesn't
calculate all the stats try to get a
scale that shows different measurements
weight body fat percentage body water
percentage bone mass density and BMI
which stands for body mass index if you
can find one that also plays disco tunes
like stayin alive well that's even
better
eighteen using an inaccurate scale a lot
of people in an attempt to save money
buy the cheapest scale they can find
unfortunately these scales tend to give
you incorrect readings
besides they break way more often than
more expensive high-quality ones better
invest in a digital scale which tends to
give more reliable results than spring
scales and read feedback before buying
the model you've chosen hey if you learn
something new today then give the video
a like and share it with a friend and
here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life